Let's take a look at how we could add
nested states into dragging in order to
get the behavior that we want.
By adding states, we don't
necessarily need to change anything.
And that's because our
mouse move mouse up and
key up the escape transitions are still
going to be exactly the same.
So let's add a couple nested states.
So initially we're going
to have a normal state.
And this is going to represent
the normal operation of dragging.
So states, We're gonna have
two states normal and locked.
So, the normal states, we don't really
need to have any different behavior,
we just need to know when
the shift key is pressed.
So we could do, What did we call it?
So nine, So
you can see here, we have a keydown.shift,
in a keyup.shift.
So I'm just gonna copy
these from the final JS.
Basically, we're listening for key down
events on the body just like we are for
escape, except we're going to
be doing it for shift as well.
So we're gonna be doing the same thing,
For keyup.
So when we press Shift+Down,
we get the keydown.shift events.
When we lift it up,
we get the keyup .shift event,
and those are going to be
sent directly to the machine.
So we could go in between normal and
the locks states.
So on, keydown.shift, we go to locked.
And in the locks states, on keyup.shift,
we go back to the normal state.
So let's take a look at what
that looks like right now.
So when we're dragging, you'll see
that we have another state over here,
dragging.normal.
This dot notation is how we could specify
these hierarchical states as a string.
And so when we press Shift,
we see that we're in the locked state.
If you did that correctly,
you'll see that there's a red line in
the middle that only tells it you can only
go from left to right.Obviously we still
can't go from left to right right now.
We need to add that behavior in there
when we're in the locked states.
And so that behavior is normally defined
in mouse move when we are assigning
the delta.
Okay, so let's change or
not change that but
I haven't assign x delta because we
only wants to assign the x value.
So we could remove the y value,
and then, in locked.
We're going to override
this mouse move behavior.
So mousemove, actions.
We're going to assign x delta.
You could ignore this internal false for
now.
And so now when we drag it,
and we press Shift,
now we're only able to move in the x axis.
So we see that everything is working.
Now, states can transition to other
states directly even if they're nested.
And the way that you do this nested
state is by using dots notation.
So right here in idle
when we start dragging,
we immediately go on the mouse down
transition to the dragging states.
And because we're not specifying a child,
we go to its initial
state which is normal.
But we could override that,
we could say dragging.locked.
And so now ,when we start in idle
we're immediately in the lock state,
which isn't very useful, but
that just demonstrates how you could go
directly to this trial state instead of to
the initial state of the parents state.
All right, so Matt asks, Is there any
issue with combining both the key up.
And the key up listeners on the voice
of both of them the shift and
the escape, using a switch to
determine which send events to send.
There is no issue with that and
you could definitely do that if you want.
Again, it's up to how
you structure your app.
So, what they were saying is if we
take this and we move it over here.
Now we have one less event listener and
everything should still work the same,
I believe.
Maybe not because we got rid of yeah,
[LAUGH] targets target dragging.
So now everything should work the same.
Yep.
So yeah, in short, you could
definitely combine both of those.
And there's not really any issue
there because what you're doing is
you're just choosing which
specific events to send.
What you could also do is you
could send this events directly,
you could say service.send(e),
where e stands for event over here.
And what you would have to do then is
use guarded transitions in order to
determine what should be taken
based on what's inside the event.
And so sometimes that's a good idea, but
sometimes when you know exactly which
events you want to limit to, then maybe
it could be a little bit verbose.